we're we're set right we're good yeah
okay can you just tell me if stream
looks okay because I'm not gonna be able
to see it can you guys hear me okay
both so both stream looks good okay
perfect let's just let's do it
so Jessica thank you very much for
coming on stream I appreciate it
awesome yeah I'm nervous but glad to be
here yeah so tell us a little bit what
do you prefer to be called Jessica or
madam Faye Jessica's fine
so Jessica tell me help me understand a
little bit about what sort of motivated
you to come on stream and what we're
gonna be talking about today my husband
actually watches domination time a lot
okay and then he found you through him
and he's like I think you would really
like this doctor the way he talks about
things seems like you would benefit from
so I watched a couple videos Mike yeah
yeah I really like this and the the big
kicker was the interview that you did
was Tom and the exchange that you guys
had it wasn't just one person talking
you guys both talked about things and I
really liked the exchange so after I
watched that I sent the email okay well
thanks for reaching out so what would
you like to talk about today I sent an
email and I gave a little bit of details
and I can kind of try to backtrack a bit
yeah I have I have a lot of self
judgment that I have struggled with for
a long time and I've been trying to make
I guess I try to move forward and figure
out how to quell the judgment and just
have a better a better healthy
self-image
uh-huh and I'm just I have no idea where
to start okay beautiful
so I think I already know what your
problem is which is that you're trying
to quell the self judgment yeah the
first thing to point out is that like so
sometimes we have thoughts about
ourselves and we're critical and and
what do you do when you have those
critical thoughts about yourselves I
mean it personally it sort of depends on
the day sometimes they just keep going
other times I'm like no you're you're
better than that you're worth more than
that yeah that you need to stop doing
that and let's go and do something
different yeah and so if I were to put
it and we'll go into more details but I
just kind of want to outline things for
the people who are watching so the first
thing is like you fight against them
right so it's a battle yes and do you
know who wins when you fight against
yourself probably no one absolutely
right so that's the first thing to
understand is that like when you fight
against yourself you just can't win
there's like there's no winning because
like you're gonna lose and you're gonna
win like that's just and I think this is
what happens with self judgment is like
I'm gonna ask you a couple of questions
okay Jessica so do you feel like every
day
so you're you're not fighting against
like you're you're in a war against
yourself yeah is that what it feels like
yes and it's a kind of a war of
attrition yeah and there are some days
that you win battles but you're not
making progress in the war no it's just
it never stops
yeah so I want to just point out to you
that like you can't like you can
overcome that judgment temporarily but
over time like like that takes a lot of
energy when you overcome it right yes
and then eventually like there's gonna
be a day I understand do you have kids
yes yeah so like how many kids you have
I have two girls and one of them is
almost three and the other ones one and
a half yes so like when you have two
young kids at home you're just gonna
lose battles of discipline and
motivation because kids just take an
unbelievable amount of energy investment
you've got nothing left for yourself
that's very true and so we've got a
think about how can we change the way in
which you talk to yourself that is a why
we're calling absolutely we're talking
today why don't we start by telling can
you tell me a little bit about how long
you've been judging yourself ever since
I can remember
okay so what do you remember like when
you were let's say like in middle school
um
middle school I wanted to be part of
like the popular kids group uh-huh and I
did my best to socialize but those
people but I could never really find
common ground with them uh-huh and I
kind of figured that they just didn't
like me okay and so did you think this
is gonna sound so the first thing to
think about is that you you tried to be
something so did you try really hard to
get them to like you at the time I
probably thought I tried really hard but
looking back I don't think I did I think
when I met rejection I just kind of
withdrew from the whole thing okay I
didn't really put forth a lot of effort
after that uh-huh and and what do you
think it was that make you withdrew was
wrong I'm not sure how to handle
rejection
okay.i it makes me have a worst self
judgment and I just I don't know how to
reconcile that I don't know how to
accept rejection okay I'm gonna just
think about that for a second okay this
is gonna sound kind of weird but are you
sure you don't accept rejection too much
I guess that's a possibility right so if
you're telling me that when when someone
rejects like let me let me put it to you
this way like let's say that I go to a
used-car salesman and the used-car
salesman says hey I'd like you to buy
this car and I say no if that person
doesn't accept rejection what are they
gonna do um still fight for you to buy
that even though you've said no exactly
but what I'm hearing you say is that you
actually don't do that right when when
they turn away what you're actually
saying is that when they shut you down
you don't try hard enough
yeah bizarre way it sounds to me like
you actually accept rejection way too
easily I never thought about that but
yeah how does that feel when I say that
like does that resonate is that what
could be going on it's a definitely a
new idea and yes it does resonate okay
so now like so this is why people don't
move forward because their conception of
what's wrong with them is actually wrong
because good diagnosis precedes good
treatment and so here you are saying
that you don't accept rejection easily
enough but I think like the problem here
is that you accept it too easily and
that's what traps you you see that yeah
and so what we have to teach you how to
do is actually do the very thing so if
you think that you're running a certain
play but you're actually running an
opposite play if you think you're
playing a passing game do you watch
football okay do you understand off
about it to follow you okay so like if I
think I'm running a passing game but I'm
actually running a running game and
that's not working like what I need to
do is like get like improve my passing
game but your does that make sense like
you're actually you're you think you're
doing the thing that you're not doing so
no wonder it's not working because you
think you're doing something entirely
different Yeah right
so
and weird so now we get to a real
question right so which is why do you
accept rejection so easily so if we talk
about confidence now this is making
sense because the problem here is that
when someone rejects you you take you
you value their opinion over what you
feel yourself does that make sense yes
are you getting emotional I get
emotional when I talk about that stuff
yes I do what are you feeling
that what you're saying is the truth and
it's hard to accept
what's hard to accept about it that I
don't value myself enough absolutely
right so that's beautiful I mean not
it's not beautiful that you know
yourself enough what I think is
beautiful it's like I don't have to
explain the rest of it to you right so
here I in my mind I had started out with
this kind of whole map of like getting
you to the conclusion that you don't
value yourself and isn't as much as you
need to but you figure that power cut
out all on your own yeah I do that you
do what you figure things out on your
own good yeah makes our life easy makes
my life easy I do a lot of self
introspection and try to understand why
I do the things that I do but you know
if I was thinking that I was doing one
thing and I'm doing another it makes a
lot of sense while I could figure this
one out of my own yeah and so I want you
to be really careful here because when
you're not able to figure things out on
your own
you're probably judging yourself for not
being able to fix yourself yeah right
all the time and that in turn makes you
feel more and more like a piece of [ __ ]
which in turn makes it easier for you to
be rejected because deep down you don't
believe that you're worthy of being
accepted yep now what are we gonna do
about that consider this as a new
information and got to put some kind of
action into play in here about incorrect
it correct correct we're not gonna wear
action is not where you're you're going
wrong Jessica okay right like where
you're going wrong is like so you're
hurt you don't have confidence in
yourself
so let me ask you a question so you have
a three-year-old right boy or girl yes
two girls okay so you've got a
three-year-old girl when she has a
problem with confidence what do you do
do you implement an action plan to build
her confidence well we have really
haven't had any issues with that that
I've seen just okay but I think what I
would do would be just to sit down and
talk to her about what's going on and
why she feels that way yeah and you know
what that's probably not what you do to
yourself what I guess is that you tell
yourself hey I need to be more confident
and I need to get my [ __ ] [ __ ] in
order and and I need to stop feeling
this way and I need to implement actions
to change the person that I am how would
that work with your kid she wouldn't
understand what I was telling her yes
and so I think what you need to learn is
like how to talk to yourself and instead
of like being you know instead of being
so corrective be a little bit
compassionate yeah are you nice to
yourself
okay so I could ask you why aren't you
nice to yourself but I don't think
that's actually a productive question
I'm gonna ask you a different question
and stuff instead when did you learn and
this can be hard to answer so we can you
know I can ask this a bunch of ways when
did you learn that you're not worth
being nice to that is a kind of a long
story there we go so let's hear right I
might be able to sit so it's not know
cute a whole hour we don't need to
condense and just start okay see it like
let me pause for a second so I want to
point something out to you so when you
say that you want to condense it that's
the problem like you're not letting
yourself like you're saying that my
story needs to be condensed you're not
accepting what the actual like you're
like what you need to do in that moment
is not condense it right you need to you
need to accept like who you are fully
and that the reason you are this way is
like long and complicated and that like
cliff notes is not like there's a part
of you that says oh I need to do the
Cliff Notes version because everyone
else you know I'm not worth their time
and we have more important things to
talk like you see how you're doing that
it's so [ __ ] it's automatic like oh
like the Cliff Notes version because I'm
not worth it like I'm not worth the full
hour I need to condense things so that
we can move on to the action plan yes so
it's so automatic it's like insidious
because it it's you become your default
programming so we're gonna stop right
there
and I want you to notice that when you
like try to condense it what you're
actually doing is like invalidating
yourself okay
so let's hear the long version my
parents got divorced when I was little I
would say probably five or six not sure
about the timeframe on that but
my dad got remarried 98 ish I think I
was 10 or 11 and a middle-school
actually about that time I started
noticing some different things when we
would visit my dad on the weekend like I
would have just gotten out of the shower
at mom's house getting ready to go to
dad's house and get the car and he first
thing he says to me is you you need to
get the shower soon as we get there my
hair is still wet why do I need to get
in the shower we get there we can't sit
on the furniture I have a stepsister who
lived with them but she can sit on the
furniture she can come upstairs out of
the designated play room or play area
that they had but my brother and I we
had to stay down there I would want to
go to school dances and junior high we
weren't I wasn't allowed to do that if I
still wanted to go to Dad's house
because it was his time I was interested
in religion at a very early age and I
got interested in more alternative
religions and brought that to him the
biggest memory about that conversation
that I have is you're going to hell
because I'm not interested in the same
things that he's interested in it he
would call and I actually stopped going
to his house after a while because there
were just so many small little things
that ended up just piling up like this
and I would tell him I'm not I'm not
coming I'm not coming to your house so
he would call and we would try to have
these phone conversations to figure out
why I don't want to go to his house
anymore
and they would go nowhere he would say
things like well you don't have any
opinions of your own they're all your
mother's opinions I'm the adult you're
the child you need to do what I say sort
of thing my mom you know she'd sit there
with me well I have these conversations
on the phone with dad she do her best to
just be there for me and then after
these conversations were over she you
know I understand what's going on here
you you probably should still go to your
dad's but she would never force me to do
anything like that because she she could
see what was happening my brother still
went to my father's house and I'm not
sure what his time was like when he was
there but after a while my mom told me
that when he was there the dad would
just be like well why isn't your sister
coming over my brother and I have a
terrible relationship we are civil to
each other we show up at family events
but we were not close at all there's
there's no one to be close either like
neither one of us really want to go
further and try to mean closer I to this
day I don't have a want to have a
relationship with my father I will
answer his phone calls talk about
whatever it is he's called to talk about
I don't do holidays with him and my
daughter turned one in June we had a
small birthday at our house I did not
call to invite him and I did not feel
guilty about that it felt like a relief
I don't have a want to be closer to him
I have a want to figure out how to just
be okay with what happened yeah so damn
essica thank you so much there's so much
there I imagine twitch chat is exploding
right now but I can't see them so that's
probably good so and you shouldn't watch
them either
no watching try I'm not good so Jessica
my first question I'm gonna ask kind of
weird questions okay the first thing
that I want to point out is like do you
feel so why don't you feel guilty for
treating your dad the way that you do
because I did feel guilty about it for a
long time because you know he's your dad
you should be close to your dad and I I
think I did try for a little while to
figure out how to make some type of
relationship work but it just stressed
me out it made me feel worse it never
made me feel better
uh-huh so I don't give it that effort
anymore beautiful so if you want to fit
I'm sorry did you want to say something
else I was gonna say that something that
he didn't really talk about is another
thing that he would say to me my
stepmother is biracial he would tell me
that I don't want to come over because
I'm racist he would say things like that
as well
and I actually tried to have a direct
conversation with her a little over a
year ago uh-huh
I have the conversation on my phone
still and I don't know how to explain it
other than she still wanted to treat me
like I was 12 years old and that
everything that I did was wrong and she
had no fault of her own and anything
that happened and I asked my father to
read that conversation and I asked him
if we could have a discussion about the
things that we talked about and the way
that I feel about what happened and he
told me that he can't fix what's in the
past so he doesn't want to talk about it
throughout what do you think about that
that was kind of a a reinforcement on
the fact that I don't need to give it
effort if I'm not gonna get anything
from it okay so I want to say something
so I think your road forward actually
comes from your current relationship
with your dad because in a weird way
like even though you're doing things
like so just think about this your self
judgemental self-critical nature tends
to latch on to all kinds of stuff to
make you feel like a piece of [ __ ] and
when it comes to the way that you treat
your dad I would think that the self
judgmental part of you has plenty of
ammo to be self-critical of you with the
way that you treat your dad now right
yeah but you but it doesn't now you see
that so that's actually true north for
us that's your solution if you can
understand what has happened in your
mind to accept your relationship with
your dad and not feel guilty about it
because you're not self-critical even
though you're on paper doing things that
a lot of people would think would be
like not treating your dad well like not
inviting to his grandkids first birthday
party on paper that's something that
feels like neglectful and mean but it
isn't and more importantly you don't
trick yourself into thinking it isn't so
you actually feel confident and accept
yourself even though on paper that
behavior can be perceived as bad right
right so like do you see how that's our
kernel of confidence all we have to do
is understand like how did you get to
that place with your dad and if we can
understand how you got to that place and
we can duplicate it then you're gonna be
fine
does that make sense yeah it does okay
so now I'm gonna ask you so you said
earlier that like there were a lot of
these things that piled up with your dad
right you mentioned that like even
though you had just showered like he
wouldn't let you sit on furniture yes he
wouldn't let you go to school dances he
thinks you're racist
so what do you when you say all of that
stuff piled up what is it there that's
piling
it was kind of like little messages that
you're you're not worth my love yeah
so Jessica now I'm going to ask you
question
when you're self-critical too when you
when you beat yourself up is there some
sentiment that you are not worth your
own love I don't know how does it feel
when you beat yourself up I don't really
know how to answer that okay so let's do
this why don't you tell me a little bit
about how so this is the barrier right
like this is the barrier of our
understanding so we've come this far and
I think you're doing fantastic by the
way and I can see that we're bringing up
a lot of very raw feelings for you how
are you holding up actually let me ask
you that first oh I'm okay
because it's not like this hasn't
happened before okay I'm trying to
remain a little bit in control so we can
still talk okay I appreciate that and
also if you don't want to remain in
control that's fine too
okay and you know we can pull the plug
anytime you want to
so I okay you know just let me know
where you're you know where your limit
is okay now let me so tell me a little
bit about like give me an example of
like how you're critical towards
yourself or something that you judge
yourself for I'm actually a student at
school currently as well okay so did
that's insane yeah I do really well at
school actually and I'm not surprised
I'm very important that I do really well
and if I do the less that well I I could
beat myself up about that why is it
important that you do well because when
I started in school I was actually
started college I was seventeen oh wow
but I didn't do well then okay I I
didn't go I didn't follow through
assignments
I withdrew classes try to get another
semester it was just the same cycle over
and over again so I want to succeed this
time okay like I know I can succeed and
I don't want to go back into that old
pattern okay okay so when I'm not doing
well it's like you don't want to you
don't want to fall back you've got to
take it up got to do better instead of
me like like a 4.0 in a class is not
that important hmm
it's okay if you get a 90% and not a
hundred percent like part of me knows
this but I don't think I allowed myself
to do that okay and what happens when
you get a let's say a 90 or heaven
forbid an 88 and all right I try to
figure out what I did wrong and what I
could have done better and make sure
that that doesn't happen on the next
assignment okay
there's not I don't spend a lot of time
being like oh you're steep I don't do
that it's just so there's not a lot of
focus yeah so this feels this feels like
it's in a wrong direction actually to me
okay like the sentiment that I'm getting
from your college experience seems like
the emotions that are tied up there have
to do with your performance when you
were 17 like fixing that mistake this
feels like it's very different from like
what your dad made you feel like okay it
also feels like relatively balanced to
me like do you think that the way that
you beat yourself up over college is
like a problem or you think you do a
pretty good job with it
I don't think it's a problem I just
couldn't really think of any examples
other than that that was the first thing
okay so I think I think once again it
sounds to me like you're actually doing
pretty well there yeah like you kind of
screwed up like you're sort of proactive
and you're telling me that you don't
beat yourself up when you get an 88
therefore it's not what we're looking
for okay right like as we're talking
about when you beat yourself up so and
it's okay like so it's it's great that
you shared that example so like a lot of
times you know when we're talking about
things we sort of like it's gonna take
us some time to find what we're looking
for and it was really bizarre that you
went right to it you know the first five
minutes like that's awesome but we can't
accept to expect that kind of success
going forward so what's something else
have you beat yourself up for
okay for the longest time I didn't have
friends I didn't try to have friends so
I've made sure to do things like a story
time with my kids so they have some sort
of socialization uh-huh even though that
whole thing makes me uncomfortable
okay and what I when I don't do that
with them
well they're gonna be just like you and
you can't let that happen
that sort of thing okay I think now
we're getting to it so when you say
they're gonna be just like you what does
that mean what are you like Jessica I
don't know how to talk to you uh-huh
and
what kind of person doesn't know how to
talk to people
the first thing I said was not a very
good one what do you mean by that
someone that knew how to talk to people
is a better person someone who knows how
to socialize people
and so you're afraid that your kids are
going to end up like what
isolated not know how to relate to the
world okay
and you feel like you're isolated and
you don't know how to relate to the
world what's the time yes and what do
you think it like so this is gonna sound
kind of weird but there are all kinds of
reasons why people will be isolated and
not be able to relate to the world why
do
what's the reason that you're not able
to do it probably because I accepted it
too much rejection
just kind of let that feed the figure
that I need it to be isolated this isn't
okay so I'm gonna stop you you're not
allowed to use anything that I tell you
okay like I hate it when people give me
the right answer so like this is this is
the part of you that's like coming up
with the right car like that's a
cognitive answer I'm asking you like
like there's a part of you that feels
like you're just not okay with the rest
of the world right right like tell me
about that part don't spoon feed me my
own [ __ ]
I mean you're right but let's step away
from that right so like what like why do
you feel like let's say one year ago
let's actually go back to when you said
that you haven't had a whole lot of
friends for for awhile let's say like
four years ago did you have free would
okay
why didn't you feel like you had a whole
like did you have no friends at one
point I've had steadily I've had one
friend that we've been close with off
and on and I guess I could kind of see
people that you know they go out with
their friends on the weekend okay I
never did that sort of thing uh-huh
I was I was never really interested and
the things that they would do like go to
bars and whatnot yeah that wasn't my
thing and I guess I just never found
somebody that was interested the same
type of things I was haha wait I was
interested in at them I never found
somebody who I had common ground with
and I thought that that meant there was
something wrong with me yeah and what
did they tell me about that feeling it
made me not what to socialize mm-hmm
because if there's something wrong with
me and then who would want to talk with
me sort of thing mm-hmm so I
- notice something that's going on right
now right so you're you're using some
amount of cognition to rationalize like
good reasons why you weren't able to
make friends like you just weren't
interested in going out and getting
hammered you know and most of the people
who you were hanging out with we're
interested in going out and getting
hammered that makes perfect sense and
every time you say something like that
it moves away from the feeling that like
some part of you felt like you just
weren't worth getting to know right you
see that yeah and and so I can also see
that your your facial expression has
changed you seem calmer to me now so if
it makes me call there to try to
rationalize things absolutely right
uh-huh so what do you do like tell me
about that how like how does
rationalizing help you stay calm
my emotions could be very turbine
turbulent yep and in the past I've
gotten so caught up in them that they
they have led me to some pretty bad
places yeah like what I had a problem I
was diagnosed with bipolar disorder and
about that time with my diagnosis I had
a lot of suicidal ideation mm-hmm so I
guess that's been kind of like a I want
to say a coping mechanism but I'm not
sure how to express it beautiful you can
rationalize thinking yeah yeah try to we
call that it yep we call that a defense
mechanism yeah
there you go so but let me ask you
something but I have a couple questions
for you Jessica so do you do you feel
like the judgment that so the south
judgmental part of you and I want you to
kind of envision that like so you're
like I think there's a part of you that
recognizes that you're an awesome and
wonderful person that true yes and then
there's this other part of you that
thinks that you're a piece of [ __ ] yes
so let me ask you something does that
person that thinks you're a piece of
[ __ ] is that rooted in emotion or rooted
in rationality emotion absolutely all
right so I want you I want you and other
people to kind of understand this that
like what happens is that part of your
mind hijacks your rational thinking it's
like there's like a rational part of
your mind that knows that you're a good
person but when those emotions rise up
they like bully your rational mind and
they say hey I feel like a piece of [ __ ]
and I want you to give me a thousand
reasons why I'm a piece of [ __ ] and then
your mind starts thinking those thoughts
does that make sense yes what the root
is emotion
and I think this is where like the crazy
thing here is that Jessica I think you
were taught you're not like mentally ill
you were taught that you're like look
this is important to understand you were
taught that you're not worth it
right do you see that if this is a
lesson that you learned because when
we're kids and we're growing up we learn
all kinds of things that are not like
information that are not like state
capitals and mathematics our parents
give us a sense of value in like who we
are and and right now I imagine that
you're an amazing parent yeah yeah right
yeah and like how long does it take when
your three-year-old starts crying how
long does it take to calm her down it
depends on the situation but not very
long usually how long are we talking a
couple minutes really a couple minutes I
would say like five minutes tops tops
yeah you calm her down in less than two
minutes usually yeah yeah like I would
be surprised if actually I wouldn't be
surprised if half the time you calmed
her down in less than 60 seconds yeah
like 60 seconds of crying is a lot right
yeah so I think actually I would I would
be I wouldn't be surprised if all like
you calmed her down in 30 seconds
yeah and that tells me that you're
actually doing an amazing job at being a
mother because kids who get calmed down
or kids that are secure yeah and so when
mom tells me everything is gonna be okay
like she has faith in you and she
wouldn't have that faith and you like
kids don't have faith in in like bad
parents right like the reason that they
have faith in you is because like they
know that when you say everything is
okay actually everything ends ends up
okay and 99% of the time everything ends
up okay so she has faith in you and that
means you're doing an awesome job it's
something called secure attachment you
can like do a Google Scholar search but
I would guess that your kid huh my
degree that I'm getting is child
development Oh perfect so like your kids
have I think they have very secure
attachment yeah and so I think you're an
awesome person and your give you're
instilling them a sense of confidence
and what they're learning like is that
they're a good person that the world
like makes sense right
whereas what you learn from your dad is
that the world is a confusing place and
that actually like you don't have a
voice and you're not like a good person
right right that you can take a shower
and he tells you like you're you're
[ __ ] not allowed to sit in furniture
right like if you think about one of the
things that makes like you know that
that feels to me like he's making you
feel subhuman yeah like you know I
wasn't alive when civil rights was like
a big thing back in the 60s but I can
imagine that when you're a human being
and you were told that you're not
allowed to drink at one water fountain
you have to drink it a different water
fountain like it makes people feel
subhuman and when I hear the way that
your dad treated you it makes me feel
like he treated you in a subhuman way
and when you beat yourself up I think it
there's a part of you that learned that
you are subhuman and you can and that
that emotion is there and you can argue
against it all you want to but that
emotion doesn't give a [ __ ] does that
make sense because when it starts to
hijack your rational reasoning like it's
like a tidal wave and you can try to put
up whatever kind of like you can try to
you know blow or splash towards the
tidal wave as much as you want to but
it's not gonna stop it and it doesn't
[ __ ] work right right so now the
question becomes how how do you fix this
what do you think I have no idea
how do you help your child feel like a
human being I talk to her like she
matters yeah do you talk to yourself
like you matter bad as off as I should
well there you go
do you talk to yourself like you matter
when it comes to school yes there we go
right remember when I said like the
school is not that's not the right
examiner because I think that's a good
example of what you're doing right when
you're when you feel guilty for not
inviting your dad to your daughter's
first birthday party how do you talk to
yourself
it didn't feel guilty for that Yeah
right and this is the key thing I think
you did feel guilty and I think you
talked to yourself like you mattered and
what you actually told yourself was that
hey on paper I know that I should I
should invite him but like he's an
[ __ ] and I don't want him to be a
part of my daughter's life and like you
talked to yourself like you matter right
like in that moment you matter to
yourself in your opinion matters and
what you believe matters and the love
that you have for your child matters
more than his feelings in a weird way
like in the same way that it's
instinctive for you to beat yourself up
it's actually instinctive sometimes for
you to treat yourself like you matter
like when you get into a fight with you
with your husband and I'm assuming
you're married to man but when you get
into a fight with your husband and like
he's in the wrong how do you talk to
yourself we don't have any arguments
okay I'm trying to think of it example
yeah so actually you don't have to
because I think that's telling right so
there's it like there's a chance that
the reason that you guys don't have
arguments is because you know like it's
a very like pat like you're not willing
to argue with him or he's not willing to
argue with you like maybe one of you
guys has like there's a big power
dynamic and you guys don't want to pick
a fight but I guess the reason that you
don't have arguments with him is because
you actually advocate and when you talk
to him you treat yourself like you
matter and you make sure that he
understands that yes and like that's
that's your answer you're already doing
it in some dimensions of your life but
there's a part of you that that you
don't you don't treat yourself like that
right like so when it comes here when it
comes to your kids when it comes to
school when it comes to your current
relationship with your dad and it comes
to your relationship with your husband
you treat yourself like you matter with
other things other feelings that you
have where you feel like you're a piece
of [ __ ] and what you do is you try to
bully that part right you fight against
it you say oh you shouldn't feel that
way but my guess is that when your
daughter is not feeling well you never
tell her you shouldn't feel that way no
right what do you tell her try to talk
about the situation like said it's it's
gonna be okay yeah but when yourself
wouldn't not now here's the here's the
punchline Jessica when you're
self-critical towards yourself do you
ever tell yourself does the thought it's
going to be okay ever enter your mind
yeah absolutely
right what enters your mind is a [ __ ]
action plan
you're not okay but if you were to do
these things you'll be okay in the
future that's not what you tell your
daughter you don't tell her you have to
do X Y & Z and then things will be okay
you tell her have faith in yourself
things are gonna be okay no matter what
we'll figure this out I'm here with you
that's what you tell her but that's not
what you tell yourself and if you can
learn how to tell yourself that then
you're gonna be fine
good side
how you feeling right now that are glad
I prepared my desk with tissues yeah
I'm feeling like we're getting somewhere
yeah you look a little bit lighter yeah
so weird how that feels right that's
good though
yeah it's very good means we're getting
somewhere
yeah you have any thoughts or questions
at this point I had a thought
yeah it'll share it I thought about
making a sari for my desk but you know
it's gonna be okay just kind of putting
it up there what do you think about that
what do you think about it sounds like a
good idea to me okay that right I think
the one thing I would caution you about
is watch out for the judgment even with
that
so a weird way what I what I can foresee
happening is that you look up at the
sign and you say oh I used to believe
that but now I don't anymore
and you can judge yourself for like does
that make sense yes you can even judge
yourself for like not believing the sign
and you're like you can even tell
yourself oh I used to be on the right
path but [ __ ] look at where I got myself
now so watch out for that okay so I
think that that sign can be wonderful
and inspiring and at the same time you
should maybe tack a smaller sign which
is that if that's not how I'm feeling
right now that's okay too I like that
you get the beat yeah it makes me think
of my husband when we were dating he
made a side that's actually hanging up
at her house it was a the played' you
know get married have kids graduate get
jobs happily ever [ __ ] after is what
it says on the bottom of it [ __ ] it
makes me think about yeah absolutely
because it's that last part right it's
not the plan
it's the whatever yeah so whatever at
the bottom and that's what you need to
learn how to do for yourself yeah
concretely I think if you're not seeing
a therapist you should really think
about it I do okay day perfect yeah yeah
well I mean I'm gonna say that maybe we
should go ahead and and stop cuz I think
this is a great place to stop how do you
feel I agree okay well thanks for coming
on Jessica I'm gonna thank you very much
and strong work today